Wii Fish
=======

Demo video: http://youtu.be/fprqP6Brhh4

Wii Fish is a Wiimote-controlled fishing game. 
The idea is that there is no need for display: the Wiimote is the interface for both playing and getting feedback. However, there is a small (400x400px) graphical interface, which is somewhat useful for modeling some aspects of the application state.

The fishing game emulates ice fishing as it is. You start by lowering the bait into water, and then wait for fish to grab your bait. You can make light pulls to increase the fishes' interest in the bait, and when you feel a fish nibbling at the bait you need to make a stronger pull to catch it. The number of caught fish is indicated with the Wiimote's indicator leds. The maximum number of fish, therefore, is four.

Instructions on playing the game:
 1. Start a new game by pressing the ENTER key.
 2. Lower your bait into water by pressing the trigger button (B) in the wiimote.
 3. Wait for a fish to grab your bait.
 4. You can try to lure fish to your bait by making light pull gestures with the wiimote, much like you would do when ice-fishing.
 5. When a fish arrives, the wiimote rumbles as the fish is grabbing your bait.
 6. Make a strong pull gesture with the wiimote in order to pull the fish up.
 7. If you caught the fish, a led indicator in the wiimote turns on.
 8. Continue from instruction number 2, until you reach a total amount of four fish (all wiimote lights on).

HINT: Light pull gestures increase the probability of fish appearing at your bait. Though overtime, if no luring gestures are made, the probability of fish appearing decreases.

## Design principles

### Interaction design

Interaction with the game is planned around the Wiimote controller. The target is to have as little interaction with the device running the game (host) as possible. That is, the player should not need to have access to the host device during a game, while still being able have a fully featured experience. 

There are fundamentally two types of interaction for controlling the game using the Wiimote: by using the accelerometer or by pressing a button. These two types extend into five actions that are recognized as different interactions by the game application:
 * pressing a button to start or end the game (currently implemented using host device keyboard for easier demonstration)
 * pressing a button to lower a bait into water
 * performing a light pull gesture
 * performing a strong pull gesture
 * performing a reeling gesture

Feedback given for the user is, similarly to controlling the game, implemented using the Wiimote. There are three types of feedback given by the system to the player:
 * turning the Wiimote lights on
 * rumbling the Wiimote
 * playing sounds (implemented using the host device)

Using mostly the Wiimote as an interface provides a simulation experience closest to what ice-fishing would really be, with all the uncertainty blindness related to what happens under the surface at the bait. Shaped much like a stick, the Wiimote provides an ideal interface for a game such as this. The pull gestures along with the rumbling suit perfectly for simulating fishing.

Ideally, the game would truly use the Wiimote alone as an interface. The game is also designed that way. However, due to implementation issues and easier demonstration, a graphical interface and parts of the interaction are implemented using the host device. 

### Architecture

The basic application logic follows the structure introduced by Processing.org applications, building upon the wiifish.pde file, where the initialization logic is placed in the "setup" -function, and the game cycle in the "draw" -function. Keyboard interactions are also defined in the wiifish.pde. Otherwise, most of the logic is separated into other classes. 

Interaction with the Wiimote is implemented using the OSCP5 library, which handles the conversion of Wiimote events generated by the application logic into OSC messages. These messages are then handled by any library that can read OSC -messages and convert them into messages which the Wiimote understands. 

The logic for interacting with the Wiimote is capsulated in the WiiController.pde. The controller is used through an interface, which hides the details of the controller application logic. The controller logic is therefore loosely coupled with the game logic. When a new game is started, a new instance of the game is created, and it is associated with a provided instance of the WiiController interface. The WiiController is then used by the game instance for interacting with the player. 
